## Goal:

Use results of topic modeling to feed a classifier model for tropical cyclone discussions, and then visualize the dataset by storm.

## Data Profile:

The discussions consist of 7000+ txt files generated by the National Hurricane Center approximately every six hours for storms at tropical depression strength or greater, over 2012-2021. I have preprocessed the data into a dataframe that identifies the current windspeed, storm category (tropical depression, tropical storm, hurricane categories 1-5), author, and timestamp for each document. I also created a [custom stopword list](https://github.com/saramoira/tropical_storm_reports/blob/main/nhc_stopwords.txt) that I join to standard english stopword lists when topic modeling. 

## Done So Far:

* Cleaned raw dataset using a combination of perl scripts and pandas
* Tried lemmatizing and stemming words (did not like - tense is useful to my topic model)
* Compared `CountVectorizer()` and `TfidfVectorizer()` using both NMF and LDA. 
* [Visualized LDA topic modeling with pyLDAvis using `TfidfVectorizer()`](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/saramoira/tropical_storm_reports/blob/main/tfidf_lda.html)

Currently there ate three topics of interest: topic 1 is largely about storms that are strengthening - (northwest motion happens more often early in a storm's life, which I'm counting as a strengthening indicator). Topic 3 is about storms that are weakening or have largely dissipated ('extratropical' and northeast motion are more often seen late in a storm's life when it reaches nore northern, cooler waters and weakens). Topic 2 is interesting - these are discussions about storms that will likely impact populated areas/land. Of particular note is the word 'key': forecasters use 'key takeaways' or 'key messages' in the discussion when they want to summarize impacts to the public, regardles of strengthening/weakening characteristics of the storm.

## Next Steps: 

I am going back to preprocessing to clean urls from my dataset - topic 4 in my current topic model is largely noise related to that. I plan to create a new dataframe with timestamp, storm ID, strength category and topic for each document and use that to create a classification model. 
